>> Ben Hong: Next thing we wanna talk
about is transparent components.
And so this is where this is going
to become actually rather critical.
We're going to take
a look at our code base,
and one of the things you'll notice here
is that if you take a look at, say, like,
the input field, this is another
common one where, let's face it,
forms are about like, what, 95% of our
bread and butter as web developers.
And so, it would make sense for us to
basically take this form control that we
have here, where we have
a typical task input of text, and
then basically wrap it in a component
that can then be reused, right?
Because then our styles and
stuff can propagate and
we don't have to deal with
all this all the time.
So your first instinct when you're
thinking of this is like, all right, cool,
we're going to go ahead,
let's create a base text input.
That's what we're going to do.
All right, so we'll take this bit here,
this whole title,
and we're going to go ahead.
And so I'm going to go ahead and
queue up the single file components.
It did not install sass, so
that won't be applicable.
And we'll drop it in here, okay?
First thing first, so
let's go ahead and don't.
Let's ignore this.
Let's not worry about the V model for now.
This is good.
We've got a placeholder.
We have disabled.
Okay, setting and
whether it's required or not.
Okay, so
typically when we're designing components,
your first instinct might be to define
props for every single one of these.
But this is, that would be a lot.
Right, because then you're basically
just kind of recreating the DOM API.
And so what we really need is to think
about what we want to do as far as, like,
okay, we want to configure specific things
that we're going to use within this base
text input.
So let's start with some
of the obvious ones.
So the first one is we're going to
want to always give it a label.
So that'll be type string.
Wait, yeah, I did that right.
Required, true.
And so we know that here, for example,
we can say, okay, the label will go here.
Then here we have this thing where
we also need to pair the for
attribute with the id.
So usually I find this actually
just easier to just call it id.
And then this way we'll just
use it to populate both.
So then type string require true.
And then we can just populate here and
here.
Okay, so that's good.
Whether it's disabled or not, that is
something that you would think that you
want to define, but honestly, this is
actually something we would want to be
able to just pass through, because
this is part of the native input and
so not something you
necessarily want to configure.
And whether it's required or
not, that you also think, yeah,
that should be something that should
just be passed through as well.
And so then you're also probably thinking,
okay, well, then, yeah,
actually, in fact,
what I really want is for
most of the attributes that view
passes to go to this input element.
Because really, this is the whole purpose
of us creating this reusable piece.
Right.
The label is really not what's being
customized.
Neither is this form control
that we're wrapping around.
So the question is, how do we do that
using what we just learned about?
What we could do?
You're probably thinking is,
well, couldn't we do this?
V-bind equals.
And then if you didn't know this,
we have this thing called $adders,
which stands for attributes.
What Vue does, essentially,
is take all the attributes that you pass
this custom component and then sends it
to whatever element that you wanted to.
Basically, you're assigning it to.
So when you do this, let's go ahead and
actually bring this up.
So, what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna,
how do I wanna do this?
Okay, we're going to go ahead and
we're going to create a quick view.
Real quick.
I'm going to call this Sandbox,
Sandbox page view.
And this page is just going to serve as,
like,
something separate from
the application code.
And that way we can just
basically queue it up and
see different demos without
interrupting the rest of it.
So I'm going to go ahead and
update that real quick.
We'll drop this all the way
here on the bottom.
So, this will be sandbox, and
then this will be the Sandbox page.
Okay, see the arcs to the right.
So we open this up.
Okay.
Yep, it's empty right now.
So that makes sense.
Let me go ahead and fire that up.
Sandbox page.
There we go.
All right, we see our Sandbox page.
All right, so what I'm going to want
to do now is let's go ahead and
import that base text input
that we just created.
The base text input is created, and then
we're going to go ahead and bring it on,
and we're going to do.
We're gonna add a placeholder and
we're gonna call it my test placeholder.
And then.
Yes, partial holder,
business not assignable.
That's fine.
Okay, so we save that and then you'll see.
Here we go.
Here's my text being bound.
And what you notice here is that this
placeholder is being passed correctly
accordingly into the input
in this particular case.
But something that should be kept in mind,
though,
is that especially when
you have different routes.
So it's kind of funny that it's
working in this particular case,
but what I wanted to demo is the fact
that you do sometimes find that,
especially with the single root nodes,
what VUE typically does, again,
it's kind of interesting, the behavior is
happening here is that it'll actually send
your attributes to the root node,
because that's what VUE knows, right?
Whereas if you think about it another way,
if we had multiple nodes here,
VUE has a hard time determining
where to send something to.
So typically what we want to do is when
we're binding the adders is you have to do
something called basically to
disable the inherit attributes.
There's this macro inside
of the script setup for
view that's called Define options for
those who come from the Vue.
Two days, you might recognize it as
basically that it would look like this.
Instead, you say inheritAttrs, false.
So, we basically created a macro
to make this easier to do, so
that you didn't have to have a script
block and a script setup block.
And so this whole thing can then be
put inside of here and just like that.
And so this is typically what you'll see
in these sort of transparent components
where you want to make sure where
the attributes are being applied to.
And so the reason why we have props here
is because if you don't have these props
already defined,
VUE is just going to send everything
along like in the bundle of attributes.
But since you have these props defined for
ID and label, that's what allows you to
designate it to other parts of
the component besides just the input.
So the thing with this,
though, is that while we have.
Basically we have this here,
if we go ahead and
let's go back to our sandbox page and
let's go ahead and create a ref from view.
And this time I'm gonna call it const.
Firstname equals ref empty and we're
gonna v-model this to first name, okay?
And then let's wrap this in main and
then we'll go ahead and
render out whatever it is where
we think first name should be.
You'll notice that nothing's happening.
And so it's probably like, that's weird.
That's not what I expected because, right,
we put v-model on text
inputs all the time, right?
I mean, it's right here we
did V model to the thing and
then it just talks to the thing.
And so the reason for that is because when
you're working with transparent components
and you want to do
something like a V model,
you actually have to be very explicit
about what it is you're trying to do,
similar to what we were
talking about earlier.
So for the base text input perspective,
the way you would typically do this, and
I want to demonstrate this the long way
first, so you understand what's happening
here is that you basically define what
it is that you want to bind it to,
because what V model ultimately
is when we take a look at it.
So let me go back, let me close this and
then go to sandbox page.
What you're really trying to say here
is that you want the value that's bound
to the text input to be first name.
And what you also want to do
is when it's on on input,
you want it to go ahead and
then basically say like,
first name equals event target value.
That's like the long form of
what you're trying to do.
And so typically the way you'd have to
accomplish this is you'd have to come in
here, you say, okay, well what we're going
to do then is we're going to say, okay, so
there's going to be a.
Let's see,
we're going to have a first in this case.
So it's called model value.
This is the prop that's actually
bound to v-model by default.
And so then we can say type string and
then we'll say default like this.
And then you would also then have to
define the emits to then say, okay,
we're going to update.
Then what are we updating?
We're updating model value.
And then from here you could then
say V model equals model value.
Just like that.
And so all that, if we did this correctly,
V model model cannot be used
on a prop local binding.
>> Speaker 2: You don't have the V
model on your using your component.
>> Ben Hong: You're saying this one.
This should be the V model, right?
Yeah, you're right.
>> Speaker 3: It's because
the ID is required.
>> Ben Hong: I think you might be right.
Yes, correct.
That's one of them.
And then what else do we require?
We required ID and then we have a label.
We don't have a label.
Yes, this is when the linter
is doing its job [LAUGH].
First name, okay, fantastic.
Great.
Okay, so that's rendering correctly now.
And so, the v-model to the first name.
This one is where it's currently not
responding the way I would expect it to.
And even though we have this already
bound, which is so fascinating.
Okay, I don't wanna do this.
>> Speaker 4: Does there have to be
something to listen to the emit.
>> Ben Hong: That's what's supposed to be.
Okay, so typically this is what it's
supposed to be because you're supposed to
essentially be saying props model value.
And here is where we would say on input,
we would say emit.
And then we would say update model value.
And then event target value
is what it should be saying.
And then.
So, I need to, where's the emits here?
Const Emits, assign it.
And then like that.
And then it's still, possibly null.
That's fine.
You can yell at me all you want.
Okay, so I'm not sure.
There you go.
Now we have it working.
Thanks for calling it out.
That's right.
We have to do it the long way first
because so you can see this
is prone to lots of errors,
if that demonstrates anything else.
And so over time,
the team basically realized that
this is something we do a lot.
And so instead,
this is too much boilerplate.
What we can do is instead we have this
new helper function called usemodel.
And so what usemodel does is all
this boilerplate we just basically
worked through.
So in that case we would say,
in this case, text value equals.
Yep, equals use model or
define model is what I meant to say.
And then you can, if you want,
you can pass it what exactly it'll be.
So in this case,
we know it's going to be a string.
And then this is where we're
gonna go ahead and then say, yes.
Okay, now that we have this,
we don't need all this boilerplate and
we do V model on the text value like this.
And then it's still works.
So, I can delete that,
and I can delete this.
And so, boom, we have this.
What's nice about this particular
V model approach though,
is that you can actually then
start to expand upon it.
Whereas before we had model value,
you can actually start passing
arguments as well to your V model.
The way that would look is that we
basically have the ability to then say,
okay, well, inside of my base text input,
let's say we had two text inputs that
we want, the first name and last name.
So, in this particular case
we're gonna ignore this for now.
As far as v-bind adders, you can
actually then pass it an argument to
basically then say whether
it's the first name or not.
So the way that would work is you would
say define model and you would say,
this is my first name.
So, let's see, let's make this clearer.
So that's easier to tell.
Const Last name, define model string.
And this is the last name.
And then what we can do here is great.
We can go ahead and
then say first name here, and
then we're going to bind it to here.
And then inside of our sandbox view.
Then we can actually now say
first name is bound to this
particular V model inside of the form.
And then v-model to.
And then in this case, last name.
You can actually bind directly
to it this way, like that.
And then, voila,
we should have Smith Ranny.
And there you go.
So the define model just makes it
way easier, especially with this.
I mean, you could do it before, but
it's just a lot more convoluted.
And so, the syntax makes it
very clean as far as making it.
You can start composing your forms
together in some pretty interesting ways
because you can bind the V
model to different form inputs.
You can be very creative
as far as how that goes.